# in-toto Community Meetings 2022

## 11/04/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* SCORED next week
* in-toto Spring Cleaning / Reorganizing community onramp
* KubeCon NA retrospective
    * ContribFest
    * Verifiable SBOMs
* Next steps for ITEs
    * ITE-7 https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/34
* Attestation Maintainers report

### Attendees
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Andres Torres (VMware)
* Marina Moore (NYU)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Mark Lodato (Google)
* Lukas Puehringer (NYU)

### Notes

- SCORED Reminder:
    - SCORED is happening next Friday, co-located with CCS

- Spring Cleaning:
    - We noticed during the ContribFest that the organization of in-toto may confuse newcomers as to where to start
    - Some previous discussions with Lukas and Marcela regarding what structure could be helpful.
    - Specifics:
        - Community repository:
            - Essentially where we point people new to in-toto
            - Clearly separate out the two specifications we have (spec + attestation)
            - Help guide people on how to contribute to those specs
            - Code of conduct, governance, attestation maintainers, maintainers
              for implementations and so on
            - Santiago: Is this automatable?
            - Lukas: comes from a conversation with Joshua Lock on how they do
              it with the TUF org. They put something together for the TUF org
              that was never fully realized. It was based on a template from the
              CNCF. Includes a whole governance process with a steering
              committee and such.
            - https://github.com/cncf/project-template/blob/main/GOVERNANCE-subprojects.md
    - Kubecon Updates:
        - Maintainer's track talk:
            - some demos (related to ITE-4 + the keylime demo)
        - Contribfest:
            - Joined with TUF and Sigstore
            - "90 minute slot for people to contirubte and welcome people who
              are new to the project and hack away"
            - Had some spec, doc, and more questions whose PR were merged and
              have been merged.
            - Some changes to ITE-7 as a result of some discussion (to be
              described)
            - in-toto github action contributed by Cole Kennedy and Mikhail
              from TestifySec
        - Verifiable SBOMs:
            - Basic idea: can we use in-toto semantics to expand the
              information that the scannner provides and can we stick this
              information inside of an in-toto layout.
            - Goal: can we both get an SBOM and benefit from an end-to-end
              software supply chain security from the in-toto framework.
            - link to document:
              https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sojT2WnbJLDeDPid5FFRAK6Ue4Pu8WEm4kDtxVSTIGM/edit#heading=h.rkcco9c4imnh
            - short term goal: define a specification
            - Idea: use in-toto (maybe TUF) as building blocks, but the idea is
              to have it a standalone project
            - Mark: question: is the idea to generate an sbom using verifiable
              information? answer: goal is to ensure whatever the scanner gave you is the
              right information.
            - Mark: point: make sure that the SBOM is complete. Scanner may not
              know that some elements are missing. The direction may be
              friendlier to a "hybrid approach" so as to reduce the
              signal-to-noise ration.
            - Ian: is there a meeting scheduled? answer: not yet, but there should be
              one soon.
    - Changes to ITE-7 (Mikhail)
        - Primary changes are about how we should be handling the trust bundles (i.e., a collection of certs).
        - Overloading key object in the in-toto spec.
        - Instead: change it to a generic trust bundle in the same way that
          OpenSSL does: a list of PEM-encoded x509 certificates.
        - This will require a couple of changes in -golang
        - Feedback needed!
        - Aditya: Document itself is in good shape. Perhaps merge as accepted
          in December community meeting. 
        - Also, we may want to consider the fulcio usecase in ITE-7.
    - Changes to verification language:
        - Santiago: we may want to move on to CUE/OPA, or something with a
          different DSL. We may also want to re-think the way that we handle
          the specification
        - Trishank: We need to do more due diligence around what the
          requirements are. Have things changed since the initial release of the
          policy language?
        - Mark: there are different levels of agreement between consumer and
          producer. There are also additional checks that *certain* consumers
          may want to do. The latter are probably worth considering separately.
          For the first case, it may be simpler for them to take the already
          defined language. e.g., maybe the organization may say: before you
          deploy run these checks.
        - Lukas: to add: artifact matching rules aren't being used as widely as
          they could be. They are quite complicated and that may make them hard to
          adopt. Perhaps a standard dsl that may make things better. 
        - Mark: we need to come back to user journeys to help develop a target
          design would help. This would help us taylor the solutions.
        - Aditya: How would this complexity map to distinct predicates? How
          would this tie back into this? We probably want to tie this back into
          a separate working group that focuses on this problem.
        - Parth: Kyverno is likely moving to CUE, so this is something worth
          considering.
        - Santiago: keep 1.x working with current verification language (and
          accomodate ITE-6) and start preparing a 2.x release that handles the
          new verification language
- Attestation Repo:
    - 5 new people agreed to help manage the attestation predicates.
    - Parth: so far they've had two meetings to discuss the runtime attestation
      type. This week, the SCAI predicate proposed by Marcela (attestations that
      describe attributes for a specific artifact, and provide evidence). E.g.,
      can you prove that something builds hermetically by combining the runtime
      and the SCAI attestation?
    - Marcela: SCAI: attribute-focused supply chain metadata. Other metadata
      (e.g., SBOM) focus on describing things about an artifact. However, a
      piece that is missing is a descriptor about the artifact's capabilities.
      For example, compilation may vary depending on the flags you use. Certain
      binaries may change instrumentation on the IR representation. These
      changes may change the properties of the resulting artifact. 
      Question: Can we capture information about what the supply chain is *doing* in
      order to change the behavior of an artifact? We want to be able to *know*
      exactly *how* this something came to be. The SCAI predicate can also let
      you know things about a producer (e.g., this producer is using a hardware
      enclave from a hardware attestation).
    - Parth: GUAC: we ingest SCAI attestations and make decisions like: "can I
      run this in a prod environment, or is there not enough evidence"

## 10/07/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* in-toto + Keylime (Mark Bestavros)
* Runtime Trace attestations (Parth Patel)
* Ideas for in-toto / TUF / Sigstore ContribFest at KubeCon
* in-toto Specification Next Release
    * Is it time for v1.0?
    * What's the process for backwards incompatible spec updates in future?

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Mark Bestavros (Red Hat)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* J K
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Shripad Nadgowda (Intel)
* Bob McW

### Notes

Prior to the actual start of the meeting, Justin shared some notes on a supply chain security meeting he attended this week. One thing he noted is that participants seem to have a rather narrow definition of what constitutes threats against supply chains.

A rep from Yubico (creator of YubiKeys) mentioned the article Trishank wrote about Yubikeys to Justin at the meeting, so there is awareness in the community  of our work (though the person did not mention TUF or in-toto by name)

Trishank echoed the limited parameters individuals within the field seem to set when it comes to supply chains. He noted that dependencies appear to be the biggest concern in this arena. Also, the concerns are always about OTHER people's supply chains, not their own.

#### New community member introductions (if any)
* Mark Bestavros of RedHat briefly introduced himself.

#### in-toto + Keylime (Mark Bestavros)
* Keylime, a CNCF project, is a run-time hardware backed system that "provides a highly scalable remote boot attestation and runtime integrity measurement solution."
* Mark presented a demo of how Keylime with in-toto works. 

#### Runtime Trace attestations (Parth Patel)
* Over the past few weeks a team led by Parth Patel has been capturing runtime trace information so, in the future, policy checks can be made.
* Parth shared a predicate model for these traces currently in development.
* By the next in-toto meeting he will have more to report.
* He is hoping that this can eventually serve as a standard.
* A question was asked as to whether there may be a confidentiality risk in this method that needs to be addressed. This concern can be modified/addresed by using other tools that can keep this information internal.
* The attestations are currently formulated specifically for builds. It can be made generic, but this is not an option currently being pursued.
* SLSA attestations can be collected alongside the runtime attestation, but such an option would bloat the data size.
* What is the point of generating verifiable attestations if the current output is for internal purposes only? This remains an open question.

#### Ideas for in-toto / TUF / Sigstore ContribFest at KubeCon

* No immediate interest expressed

#### in-toto Specification Next Release
* There is a need to address the backwards compability issues before considering a V.1.0 release.
* Also, existing ITEs would need to be reviewed to determine which would be included in V.1.0. One such issue is What about the signature wrappers.

## 09/09/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* GSoC 2022
* ITE-9: in-toto/attestation maintainers
* Supporting multiple versions of SLSA provenance (Chuang Wang)
    * https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto-golang/pull/177
* New home for adoptions and integrations -- Add yours!
    * https://github.com/in-toto/friends

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Michael Lieberman (Kusari)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Thomas Richter (Control Plane)
* Chuang Wang (Google)
* Lakshya Gupta (GSoC)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Reza Curtmola (NJIT)
* Joshua Lock (VMWare)
* Yuanrui Chen (NYU)
* Sebastien Awwad (Anaconda)
* Sangat Singh Vaidya (NJIT/Qualcomm)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Preston Moore (Anaconda)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Pradyumna Krishna (GSoC)

### Notes

#### New Community Member Introductions
* None

#### GSoC 2022
* Lakshya Gupta presented a few slides summarizing his research project in updating the Jenkins plug-in and adding SLSA provenance. He also shared a demo of the work.
* Pradyumna Krishna also summarized his work with DSSE in securesystemslib and in-toto-python. He noted that he had been able to complete his required tasks. 

#### ITE-9: Vote on in-toto/attestation maintainers
* Data on the winners can be found at https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_b792e888a5e3ecbf
* There was an issue of not wanting to have two maintainers from the same company. As a result, the winners were: 
    * Marcela Melara (Intel Labs)
    * Joshua Lock (VMWare)
    * Tom Hennen (Google)
    * Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
    * Parth Patel (Kusari)

#### Supporting multiple versions of SLSA provenance (Chuang Wang)
https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto-golang/pull/177
* The purpose here is to be able to maintain multiple versions of slsa-specific statement struct especially when slsa v1 comes out in next couple of months.
* The proposal is to revert slsa0.1 back to help the community evaluate the model of keeping multiple versions.
* There is a need to coordinate these efforts with SLSA
* Also, backwards compatibility needs to be raised as an issue.

#### New home for adoptions and integrations 
https://github.com/in-toto/friends
* New way of displaying/tracking current and emerging integrations.
* It can track HOW the companies are using in-toto.
* It was suggested that the link add logos or other information to make the adopters/integrators more visible at a glance.

## 08/05/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Next steps for selected ITEs
* GSoC 2022 Updates
* ITE-9: Confirming in-toto/attestation maintainers
* Distributing public key parameters for root layouts (Trishank)

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Tom Hennen (Google)
* Joshua Lock (VMWare)
* Lakshya Gupta (GSoC)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Mike Lieberman (Kusari)
* Trishank Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Mark Lodato (Google)
* Andres Torres (VMWare)

### Notes

#### Next steps for selected ITEs
* Three ITES are currently in Draft form: ITE 6, 7, 9
* Sponsors for ITE 7 and 9 were not present for this meeting, so only ITE 6 will be addressed.
* ITE 6 (https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/tree/master/ITE/6) is currently stalled because some predicate types are overlapping. If variations are introduced, how are they classified?Can users just add extra fields without changing predicate types? 
* How easy do we want to make it for users to make multiple small changes? Could this yield compatibility problems down the road?
* On the flip side, how easy is it to create new predicate types?
* The group agreed to approve the existing ITE and open a new one that dealt with this issue of how to handle variations. 

#### GSoC 2022 Updates
* One of the GSoC contributors was present and reported on his work in solving issues with the Jenkins plug-in.
* Some security concerns were raised about the Jenkins source file.

#### ITE-9: Confirming in-toto/attestation maintainers
https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/issues/98
* Need to establish a team of maintainers to review potential predicates.
* Some people have already volunteered to work on this project. Parth Patel volunteered at this meeting.
* How many maintainers do we need?
* Attendees agreed it would be good to have one reviewer from each project. 
* Recommendation was to have at least three reviewers. The names will be confirmed at the September meeting.

#### Distributing public key parameters for root layouts (Trishank)
* New proposal, particulaly for public repositories,identifies a gap between how TUF describes keys. 
* One possibility is to embed the TUF keys in the in-toto metadata. This borrows from how ITE 2 works.
* It would create a way to accommodate the number of different crypto systems used.
* Possibly address this by creating a new ITE that supercedes ITE 2.

#### Miscellaneous notes
* How does SPDX relate to in-toto attestations?

## 07/01/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Next steps for selected ITEs
    * ITE-6
        * Type system for attestations?
    * ITE-7
    * ITE-9
* GSoC 2022 Updates
* Coordinating in-toto-golang's support for older SLSA provenance versions (Chuang Wang)

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Trishank Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Mike Lieberman (Kusari)
* Adam Shamblin (VMWare)
* Chuang Wang (Google)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* xynnn 
* Pradyumna Krishna (GSOC)
* Lakshya Gupta (GSOC)
* Joshua Lock (VMWare)

#### Next Steps for ITEs

##### ITE-6
* Already has several implementations to support it.
* Next step would be to get the community to establish what would be the minimum required material for submitting an attestation type. This is where ITE-9 comes in.
* ACTION ITEM More examples of attestation implementations are needed so we can test how they work. Set up a section/subsection where these examples can be posted for review

##### ITE-7
https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/blob/master/ITE/7/README.adoc
* This was held at the last meeting because none of the sponsors were present.
* Aditya posted a PR at https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/issues/33 proposing the ITE be accepted.

##### ITE-9
https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/32
* Already been discussed at a few meetings this year and is probably ready to be merged as a draft.
* The purpose of the ITE is put the mechanisms in place for establishing the process for submitting attestation types.
* Thread for this has been established on the Slack channel
* The ITE was merged as a draft during the meeting.

#### GSOC Updates
* Pradyumna Krishna noted some issues with Python TUF.
* Lakshya Gupta is working on updates of Jenkins plug-ins to add provenance extension.

#### Other Business
* Chuang Wang asked if SLSa .2 will have backwards compatibility issues for in-toto golang.
 https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto-golang/pull/156
* The thought about the above is not to worry about backwards compatibility until SLSA 1.0 is released. "Just support the latest version you can."

## 06/03/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Roadmap Review draft
    * https://github.com/in-toto/docs/pull/62
* Next steps for selected ITEs
    * ITE-6
    * ITE-7
    * ITE-9
* GSoC 2022

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Pradyumna Krishna (GSoC)
* Lakshya Gupta (GSoC)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue) 
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Mark Lodato (Google)

### Notes

#### Roadmap review 
(https://github.com/in-toto/docs/pull/62)
Comments?
* This is a bit overdue for merging, but will be done in the next few weeks. 
* Please send comments on any needed changes

#### ITE Update

##### ITE 4
* Yuanrui Chen, a student at NYU, and Alan Chung Ma, of Purdue, have been working on developing resolvers for ITE-4 entities.

##### ITE 6
* At the last meeting, it was noted this ITE was close to acceptance, but a few things still need to be resolved.

##### ITE 7
* None of the sponsors for this ITE were present.
* Santiago will touch base with the sponsors to check on any possible roadblocks.

##### ITE 9
* Aditya will begin working on this again next week and both ITEs 6 and 9 can be discussed further at the next meeting.
* There is a question of whether ITE 9 will register and store the different attestation types or whether a separate repository should be built for this purpose.
* Need to distinguish between registry and non-registry items.

#### GSoC 2022
* in-toto will host three GSoC contributors this summer. Two of them are present at the meeting.
* Lakshya will be working on adding provenance support for the Jenkins plug-in.
* Pradyumna will be working on some of the issues associated with ITE 5, specifically on DSSE capabilities for the Python reference implementation.

## 04/01/20222 Meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Concerning YOLOchecks on all major repositories
* ITE-9 updates
    * Changes since last meeting
* CNCF Incubation official!
* Next steps for selected ITEs
    * ITE-6
    * ITE-7
* Google Summer of Code
    * https://github.com/cncf/mentoring/blob/main/summerofcode/2022.md#in-toto
    * Project 1: Jenkins + SLSA + in-toto
    * Project 2: rebuilderd + SLSA + in-toto
    * Project 3: DSSE support for in-toto-python
* COSE Signing for in-toto-golang
    * Volunteers needed!

### Attendees
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Lakshya Gupta
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Wiktor Kozlik (Google)
* Mark Lodato (Google)
* Lois Anne Delong (NYU)
* Pradyumna Krishna
* Sergio Felix (Google)
* Yuanrui Chen (NYU)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Marcela Melara (Intel Labs)
* Kate Stewart (SPDX)

### Notes

#### Welcome to new attendees
* Lakshya Gupta -- applicant for a GSoC project
* Pradyumna Krishna --also a GSoC applicant

#### SLSA compliance
* Should we be working toward increasing our ranking by working on SLSA attestations?
* If we were to produce these attestations, where would they be hosted?
* https://reproducible.seal.purdue.wtf/
* Maybe having a neutral API would make more sense than conforming to one particular format
* There is an open SLSA issue here: 
https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/269
* There was a recommendation that we could use this issue to "gather the folks who are interested in this topic?" (Quote from Mark Lodato) 
* A designated repo could be established to serve  as an informational hub where people could research what is out there
* ACTION ITEM--Use the issue mentioned above to begin coalescing opinion and comment.

#### CNCF Incubation official!
* in-toto is now an incubating project.

#### ITE-9 updates
* https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/32
* This would establish a process for registering/adding new attestation types. 
* Aditya summarized what this process might entail:
    * definition
    * rationale 
    * document type modeled on the SLSA provenance
* He mentioned the use of discussions in these community meetings as an important step in deciding on these attestations
* There should be a pre-defined list/schema for these types
* There is a need to acknowledge how this fits with ITE 5 (https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/blob/master/ITE/5/README.adoc)
* New attestations would still need to conform to the in-toto spec and with the attestation spec https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/README.md#envelope
* Is this PR being written to meet a specific use case? Or is it all about being "future compatible"

#### Next steps for selected ITEs
* ITE-6: probably can be merged next time
* ITE-7: Open a PR to accept this--put the issues in for discussion and see what happens
  
#### Google Summer of Code
https://github.com/cncf/mentoring/blob/main/summerofcode/2022.md#in-toto
    * Project 1: Jenkins + SLSA + in-toto
    * Project 2: rebuilderd + SLSA + in-toto
    * Project 3: DSSE support for in-toto-python
* COSE Signing for in-toto-golang
    * Volunteers needed!
* Lakshya asked if there was a template that needed to be used for that submission
* Santiago emphasized that in-toto cares more about the content of the proposal and not the format

## 03/04/2022 Meeting

### Agenda
* ITE for introducing new attestation types
    * https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/32/files
* CNCF Incubation
* Next steps for selected ITEs
    * ITE-6
    * ITE-7

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Mark Lodato (Google)
* Yuanrui Chen (NYU)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Wiktor Kozlik (Google)
* Marcela Melara (Intel Labs)
* Bob Martin (MITRE)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)

### Notes

#### ITE for introducing new attestation types
https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/32/files

* The pull request introduces the idea of formalizing how new attestation types are developed, documented and introduced. It's goal is to streamline the process of how these attestation types are introduced and evaluated.
* There was a consensus that the ITE be more specific about the problem it seeks to solve. For one thing, there is a need to clarify the ITE is about the process. It is not the place where any specification would live.
* Perhaps the ITE should mention the need for a central repository of approved attestation types.
* Also, are the attestations that go through this site implied as "blessed" by in-toto?
* Aditya noted that he has updated the PR to reflect some of the comments from this discussion.
* Attendees also recommended specifying the scope of the PR.
* Perhaps store the predicate schemas in a central repo, such as the attestation repo, and the ITE process can focus on *changes* to those schemas. 
* Some of this work may be dealt with in a proposed GSOC project.

#### CNCF Incubation
* Incubation has been approved, based on our count in the vote thread.
* We hope to hear about it publicly next week.

#### Moving forward on ITEs

##### ITE-6
* Currently in draft stage.
* Should be accepted before we move on to ITE 9, as there is some overlap.
* There are still three fields that may require some additional iteration/discussion.
* Could we break backwards compatibility and just re-do the layout to include different attestation format?
* in-toto 2.0.0 could include this different format, while the existing format could be maintained for those who do not want to upgrade.

##### ITE-7
* Would support signing and verifying link metadata with key & X509 certificate pairs.
* It is being used in production in one instance.
* * SigStore might serve as another use case for this ITE.
* One problem lies in what happens when short-lived certificates "outlive" their time.
* In the future, a new timestamp would need to be added.
* As currently described this ITE does not deal with the problem of short-lived certificates.
* Validating short-lived certificates might be better addressed in a separate ITE. 

## 02/04/2022 Meeting

### Agenda

* ITE-2 Acceptance
    * https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/issues/26
* ITE Workflow (Logistical) Improvements
* Human Review Attestations
    * Applies to code review, as well as any other human reviews such as threat models etc
    * Currently working on defining what policies would look like for such attestations, seeking feedback / ideas
    * Also interested in incorporating crev-like attestations for dependency reviews/audits
    * https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/issues/77
* CNCF Incubation
    * Public comment period is open, vote should be coming up soon
    * https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/topic/in_toto_incubation_public/88521779
* Witness Demo (TestifySec)

### Attendees

* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Andres Torres (VMWare)
* Yuanrui Chen (VMWare)
* Bill Weinberg (TestifySec)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue University)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Mark Lodato (Google)
* Wiktor Kozlik (Google)
* Sergio Felix (Google)
* Dan Chernoff (Contino)
* Marcela Melara (Intel Labs)
* Kate Stewart (SPDX)
* Tom Hennen (Google)

### Notes

* Started with introductions of newcomers

#### ITE Workflow (Logistical) Improvements

* Plan is to use community meetings to advance the status of ITEs by determining the things that might be holding things back.

#### ITE 2 Acceptance
(https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/issues/26)
* Has been open for some time (2019). There doesn't appear to be anything blocking its acceptance.
* A question was raised as to "what does acceptance of an ITE mean?" General consensus was that it means the community is ready to stand behind the content as a recommendation, rather than a requirement
* The ITE was accepted. https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/30

#### ITE 7
(https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/21)
* Also up for approval as a draft
* Merged as draft

#### Human Review Attestations
(Current Attestation types listed at https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/#introduction)
* Applies to code review, as well as any other human reviews, such as threat model, etc.
* Currently working on defining what policies would look like for such attestations, seeking feedback / ideas
* Also interested in incorporating crev-like attestations for dependency reviews/audits
(https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/issues/77)
* Should we collect use cases in a doc and see how the implementations would apply to them? 
* This could be done by having "conversations" to collect case studies
* Perhaps devote a set period of time at community meetings to discuss these issues and keep it moving forward that way. 
* The question was raised as to why we do not just use the ITE process? The answer was "because we want to move things along faster" However, there was some agreement that approaching this through ITEs might be worth a shot.  It was proposed that some use cases be run through the ITE process to see if this is a feasible way to handle things.
* May need to more formally establish how these attestations would work.
* Marcela Melara indicated interest in this thread / issue because human reviews is an interesting use case.
* A "construction of predicates" is needed. Perhaps we should provide a minimal framework on which others can build?
* Where should these definitions should be stored? Is there a need for a centralized repository? There probably should be a "blessed version" on the in-toto repository for the community as a whole, while other projects can post their own as needed.
* There is also a need to have some way to share review types.
  
#### CNCF Incubation
* Public comment period is open, vote should be coming up soon
(https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-toc/topic/in_toto_incubation_public/88521779)
* We should have been up for a vote this Monday, but it was moved back to next Monday.

#### Witness Demo (TestifySec)
(https://github.com/testifysec/witness)
* Just switched the repo to public today.
* Uses ptrace to record artifacts consumed by a compiler for example.
* Policy defines what attestations are expected. 
* Subjects are wrapped in in-toto statements
* Built from the ground-up since October. Worked to maintain compatibility with in-toto implementations
* Can we add a layer so individual projects don't have to build their own versions?
