# in-toto Community Meetings 2023

## 08/04/2023

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Graduation requirements
    * Verify in-toto using in-toto
    * Updated / completed in-toto/friends
* in-toto Cross-Implementation Test Setup (Pradyumna)
* Recent Discussions
    * How not to verify attestations
    * Media types
    * Sigstore bundle vs DSSE signature extensions
* ITE-10
* Outreach
    * Track on in-toto/community? Or in-toto/friends?
    * S2C2F
    * Alpha Omega
    * Scorecard
* Maintainer review
* Attestation Review (Marcela)
* AOB

### Attendees
* John Kjell (TestifySec)
* Aditya (NYU)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Marina Moore (NYU)
* Pradyumna Krishna
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Lukas P (NYU)
* Jack K (ControlPlane)
* Tom Hennen (Google)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Zach Steindler (GitHub)
* Alan Chung Ma (Purdue)

### Regrets
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog) [PTO]

### Notes

#### New community member introductions
* Marina: been a while
* Primarily works on TUF
* Pradyumna: previous GSoC contributor

#### Graduation Requirements
* Santiago: we're gearing up for CNCF graduation
* Been a year and some months since CNCF incubation
* Lot of traction and adoption since then
* GitHub, NPM, most CI systems have some form of attestation generation
* Companies building on in-toto semantics
* We're a mature project, belong with other graduated project
* We need to do some housekeeping in prep

##### Verify in-toto with in-toto
* Prototype available for in-toto-python
* Some similar work in our sister project TUF

##### Updated list of integrations / adoptions
* Major projects are using in-toto
* Looking through github dependents on in-toto-golang etc to track them
* Need to clean up forks and so on but major projects are using in-toto

##### Logistics
* No concrete date yet
* TOC indicating some reshuffle
* But targeting ASAP
* Hoping to get this done by KubeCon NA
* Seems like we have a lot of time but because there's a backlog we should hurry
* John Kjell: a month before KubeCon, they freeze votes and so on
* Non ITSC members are also encouraged to chip in any cycles they have!
* Most of the heavy lifting is done

#### in-toto Cross Implementation Testing
* Pradyumna: Developing the in-toto cross implementation test framework
* in-toto/demo as test script
* Basically, generating in-toto attestations using python impl, verifying with in-toto-go
* Also vice versa
* More work coming on DSSE tests and so on
* Aditya: we should move to the in-toto umbrella
* Also input re more tests and how maintainers need to react when something fails and so on
* ITSC will take up moving it to in-toto org when it's ready

#### Recent Discussions

##### How not to verify attestations
* Homebrew proposal discusses reconstructing attestations pre verification
* https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/issues/270
* Tom: some work on this in the spec already re parsing rules
* Homebrew language has been generalized now
* Santiago: there's a technical problem and a community question
* Are other communities intending to have rules that aren't in sync with in-toto's?
* Tom: I think not, we can just redirect the developers in this case to the parsing rules when the time comes
* AI: revisit the parsing rules again
* AI: engage with these devs as the time comes
* Aditya: this seems more like a misinterpretation in this one deployment case
* We can work with them

##### Media types
* How can a DSSE envelope expose a predicate type?
* Needs to be compatible with OCI store requirements re media type
* Useful to filter artifacts so that they can get only the provenance when necessary
* https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/issues/271
* Some constraints including length
* Aditya: A generic in-toto type may work for provenance now, bundle later?
* John: attestations are becoming larger
* Makes it important to be identify if worth downloading
* Marcela: important to provide guidelines
* Aditya: also things might fail open
* Serves as an unauthenticated predicate type
* Santiago: also maintianing another mapping complicates matters
* Marcela: perhaps we could update ITE-9 to include media type as well

##### DSSE Sig Extension vs Sigstore bundle
* Serialized sigstore bundle as a de-facto signature envelope
* Can't embed in in-toto attestation bundle
* Issue with supporting multiple signatures as well
* https://github.com/sigstore/sig-clients/issues/9
* Santiago: is it too hard to change the sigstore situation now?
* Aditya: engaging with them, proposed changes are compatible with sigstore's definitions so might be viable
* John: Is this a pattern? Are communities diverging?
* Santiago: in-toto was agnostic so there's a little bit of that
* Keep an eye on this and what we adopt as a recommendation
* Aditya: Not so much an in-toto spec issue but a DSSE didn't support extra fields at the time
* Marina: wrapping an envelope around an envelope in an untested way
* Duplication of fields and unclear how to process them
* AI: meet, talk with the clients, see how we can move towards a solution

#### ITE-10
* Approved to be merged as draft by Santiago
* Looking for feedback
* Plan to move prototype stuff into in-toto-golang, maybe Witness
* Marcela: Approved
* Tom: No further issues
* Santiago: merging as draft

#### Outreach
* Do we track on in-toto/friends?
* Better content strategy with blog posts, reaching out
* Blog post on SPDX for signing SBOMs using Sigstore
* Better way is to use in-toto and then sign

##### S2C2F Hackathon
* Good to have more cross pollination
* https://github.com/ossf/s2c2f/discussions/26

##### A-O and Scorecard
* A-O already technically using in-toto
* Scorecard has interest too
    * https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/issues/3352

##### Should LF projects be using LF tools?
* A-O, Scorecard etc are LF projects
* Should we formalize at that level that these projecs should support generating as attestations?
* An endorsement at that level would be very useful
* Also: CI badging program
* John: Witness / Archivista community meeting coming
* Placement in CNCF: hopefully LF doesn't hold it against in-toto
* Non-cloud native adoptions
* Justin: CNCF does not like picking winners, even when there is only one solution
* ITSC can pick this up for cross LF integrations

#### Attestation Review
* Updates on the tooling and discussions re releasing next version
* Some support for go and py use of attestation framework
* in-toto and 3rd party implementations can directly use attestation framework as a dependency
* Verifying stability pre 1.1 release
* Working on outstanding issues

## 07/07/2023

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* KubeCon NA Maintainer Track / ContribFest Proposal
    * User panel discussing in-toto adoption stories + regulations
    * Demo
* [Kairo de Araujo] Repository Service for TUF (RSTUF) will share updates about feature that is interesting for ITE-2
    * https://github.com/repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf/issues/354
* Possibly relevant: Should cache artifacts be recorded as step materials / inputs?
    * SLSA discussion: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/894
* Maintainer review

### Attendees
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Adam Nauth (Best Buy)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Jack Kelly (ControlPlane)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Victor Lu ()
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Chasen Bettinger (Boost Security)
* John Kjell (VMware)
* Kairo de Araujo (VMware)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Nisha (VMware?)

### Notes

#### New community member introductions
* Victor Lu
    * Trying to understand this space of the security ecosystem
* Chasen Bettinger
    * Previously at JupyterOne
    * Now at Boost Security
    * Trying to contribute to in-toto, have PRs open

#### Cache Artifacts
* Aditya: should links / provenance record cache artifacts as materials?
* https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/894
* Santiago: Cache artifacts are intermediate artifacts
* We have a conditional on whether cache is used or not
* Jack: Cache is always going to be an impurity
* Must record you've used the cache, where it comes from, checksums
* Which build a cache came from even, chaining builds together
* Trishank: CI systems depend on container images, how do you record which one was used?
* Aditya: environment, parameters fields?
* Santiago: What about docker's cache? Intermediate layers should be incorporated
* Aditya: chaining build attestations for caches means we don't have distinct bundles
* Aditya: cache as a separate system and the build attestations point to its state attestations
* Santiago: We should document this
* Santiago: Explore how state of caches are poisoned + how we'd record it in in-toto attestations, explore security implications and document

#### KubeCon NA Maintainer Track + ContribFest
* A 40-45m slot
* A few different routes
* One is panel
    * 5m: series of updates since last KubeCon
    * Panel of users and maintainers
    * Reached out to a few people who are already interested in joining panel
* The other is a more traditional talk
    * SCAI demo
* Combine?
    * 5 min intro / updates
    * 5-10 min SCAI demo
    * Jump into user stories for rest of the time
* What are the outcomes we want here?
    * ITSC should decide
    * in-toto hasn't focused on user stories so far
    * There is more of an argument for panel
    * Can SCAI demo be framed as a user story?
    * Who is the audience for this talk? A panel requires a more experienced audience
* Proposal:
    * Come up with a quick interview protocol for in-toto/friends / adopters
    * Make a presentation out of this rather than have a full fledged panel
    * We have the orgs and their stories represented
    * "Here's how people are using in-toto" follows a traditional intro
        * case studies
    * Show off SCAI demo as well
    * "Here's what's next", "Get involved"
    * Santiago: Will discuss with missing members of ITSC as well
* Santiago: could also organize webinars with CNCF support

#### RSTUF and in-toto / ITE-2
* Kairo: RSTUF is a repository service for TUF
* Implements TUF as a service on the repo
* RSTUF has been used for an ITE-2 demo at OSS NA 2023
* RSTUF is missing some flexibility / features for ITE-2 still
    * There are some tickets re these features
* RSTUF was designed for PEP458, PyPI
* Two in-toto aligned features:
    * Any kind of delegated role using offline keys can be signed async
    * Custom delegated roles, necessary for ITE-2 specific deployments
* Close to a first beta
* Santiago: Some background, ITE-2 is TUF + in-toto recommendation document
* Kairo: Deploy RSTUF instead of bespoke using TUF libraries, create ITE-2 roles
* Santiago: so you just configure RSTUF with the roles, simplifying deployment
* Kairo: RSTUF defaults to PEP 458 delegations structure, instead use ITE-2 structure
* With offline key support, ITE-2's other requirement will be met as well
* Nisha: looking at RSTUF to simplify deployments as well
* Kario: essentially making TUF adoption easy for everyone
* Kairo: contributions welcome!
* Beta coming in about a week, two of the three components already in beta but CLI is still alpha
* Beta won't have offline signing and custom delegations yet
* Other TUF features such as root key rotation etc will work in that release

#### Maintainer Review
* Review of maintainers of different in-toto subprojects
* Admin powers on the in-toto org need to be removed for Aditya etc
* ITSC will discuss and reach out to clean some things up
* Trishank will pick this up and follow up to remove privileges and so on

#### SCORED Deadline
* Now July 12th!
* Academic workshop for supply chain security colocated with ACM CCS
* Practitioner and research tracks, connect practitioners from both
* https://scored.dev/
* Reach out to Santiago or Marcela, on the org committee of SCORED

## 06/02/2023

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* in-toto Spec v1
* Maintainer review
* Datalog for Policies (Shujun Qi)
* ITE-10/11

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Sammy Gonzalez
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Santiago Torres Arias (Purdue)
* Zach Steindler (GitHub, OpenSSF TAC)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Zack Newman (Chainguard)
* Shujun Qi (Chainguard)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Bob McWhirter (Red Hat)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)

### Notes

#### New Member Introductions
* Zack Newman, Bob McWhirter, Shujun Qi  introduced themselves as first time attendees

#### in-toto Spec V1
* Merged a number of clarifications after the last meeting
* Aditya asked if there were any further concerns to address before it officially moves to V.1.0
* Trishank asked if there was a way to clarify some of the newer portions of the spec (i.e. new emphasis on attestations
* Should 1.0 be approved with a 2.0 roadmap?
* Aditya will submit a PR offering a 1.0 graduation review. The 

#### Maintainer Review
* There is a need to review the status of in-toto projects in terms of who owns/maintains these programs
* This effort should include the development of clearer guidelines/requirements for these tasks.
* Aditya shared the following document and asked for review and comment https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u0HTyOUZeXYIGGmiDk1GLRdaBlY_oGHUZDRe4tR8hyU/edit?usp=sharingThe * The issue will be referred to the Steering Committee for Action
 

#### Datalog for Policies
  * [Overall project plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n6H2Ar73aKCvSB5rcOLlM24o9iUEUq1pIjoUCHE146o/edit#heading=h.3qv4zfsnqar9)
  * [Demo repo](https://github.com/Shujun-Qi/PolicyEngineDemo)
  * Shujin shared a brief demo of the project which proposes a policy engine.
  * Trishank noted the importance of having a common language for these policies
  * Bob McWhirter and Cole Kennedy referenced two other policy approaches 
https://docs.seedwing.io/seedwing/index.html
https://github.com/testifysec/go-witness/tree/main/policy
* The important thing is not to push users to one particular policy engine. The idea is to review and take from these proposals the best features a standardized approach can eventually emerge.
* There's a need to consider ITE 10 and 11 in moving forward on determining best practices for policy languages.
* Bob McWhirter clarified that "our intended usage is as gates, perhaps in CI/CD, which looks at InToto and other metadata, not necessarily embedded *within* InToto."
* Aditya suggested that perhaps these issues are better addressed in its own subgroup.

#### Other Businesss
* Marcela "plugged" the SCORED workshop which is still seeking presentations.
https://scored.dev/


## 05/05/2023

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* in-toto Spec clarifications merged
    * https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/in-toto-spec.md
* in-toto/attestation Updates
* KubeCon EU report
* Maintainer review
* Misc. updates

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Trishank Kathik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Jack Kelly (Control Plane)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)
* Tom Hennen (Google)
* John Kjell (VMware)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Victor Lu

### Notes

#### New Community Members
* Jack Kelly of Control Plane introduced himself

#### in-toto Spec Clarification
* Aditya reported that the clarifications have been merged. 
* The current status Of V1-RC can be found here https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/in-toto-spec.md
          
#### in-toto/attestation Updates
* Marcela: v1.0 of attestation spec released
* Tooling aspects: support for Go, Python, (soon) Java bindings
* in-toto implementations can use these as dependencies
* New predicates: test-results predicates
* Trishank: NPM Publish Attestations https://github.com/npm/attestation/tree/main/specs/publish/v0.1
* Aditya: Can we use links?
* Tom: VSA could be generated instead but packaging ecosystems may not be ready to make SLSA level claims yet
* Cole: ITE-10 could use these predicates to link build to packaging steps and so on
* Ian: would generate such attestations when package enters corp network
* Trishank: more specific predicates may be necessary until folks are ready to use layouts and generalized links
* Will loop Frederick in about upstreaming this

#### KubeCon EU Updates
* Maintainers talks attracted about 70 people
* Cole presented a demo of Witness
* Created movement on SLSA
* Aditya: Prepared a press release about timed to KubeCon, but it did not go out because CNCF missed our PR support request.
* Quotes can be added to an existing Google Doc

#### Maintainer Review
* A maintainer review of in-toto projects is needed. 
* Aditya will set up a list of active projects and determine which should be prioritized for review.
* Add consistent processes/requirements for maintainers
* https://github.com/in-toto/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md

#### Misc. Updates
* There have been a number of releases on in-toto projects over the past few weeks, including 
* A recent security audit revealed at least one issue to be resolved https://github.com/in-toto/docs/security/advisories/GHSA-p86f-xmg6-9q4x



## 04/07/2023

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Logistics
    * Retiring meeting invite
    * CNCF Calendar
    * https://tockify.com/cncf.public.events/monthly?search=in-toto
    * https://www.cncf.io/calendar/
* Governance & Elections Update
    * First ITSC elected!
* in-toto Spec v1.0 (planned)
* in-toto Attestations v1.0 released
* Next Steps for ITEs
    * ITE-6
        * Up for acceptance
        * https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/48
    * ITE-10
* Outreach efforts?
    * Chainloop
    * TACOS
    * CycloneDX Attestations Working Group
    * OpenSSF WGs
    * ...
* in-toto & secure boot?
* Witness & Archivista
* KubeCon EU

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Aditya Sirish  (NYU)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Santiago Torres Arias (Purdue)
* Zack Steindler (GitHub)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Sammy Gonzalez (Lockheed)
* Alan Chung Ma (Purdue)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)

### Notes

#### Logistics
* Aditya noted that in-toto community meetings are now listed on the CNCF Calendar  https://www.cncf.io/calendar/
* Moving forward meeting announcement will be posted only at this site.

#### Governance & Elections Update
* Santiago noted a board has been elected and their activities will be starting shortly. The new in-toto Steering Committee (ITSC) is:
    * Santiago Torres-Arias, Academia, Purdue  
    * Justin Cappos, Academia, NYU 
    * Jack Kelly, Industry, ControlPlane  
    * Cole Kennedy, Industry, TestifySec  
    * Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy, Industry, Datadog

#### in-toto Spec v1.0 Planned
* Clarifications: https://github.com/in-toto/docs/pull/75
* Also worth considering: specifying format for exclude patterns
* https://github.com/in-toto/docs/issues/71

#### Attestations V1.0 Updates 
* Released the first issue of predicate guidelines

#### ITEs

##### ITE 6
* Aditya asked if there were any objections to merging ITE 6 
* Justin agreed to approve the one open PR and the ITE was merged.

##### ITE 10 
* Aditya will be updating the current PR for this ITE, which updates in-toto layouts with mechanisms to verify the contents of new attestation types.
* Review and comments on the PR at https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/38 are welcome. 

#### Outreach Efforts
* Santiago called for volunteers that can work to support the use of in-toto. Recent project communities to which we could be raising awareness of in-toto include:

    * Chainloop
    * TACOS
    * CycloneDX Attestations Working Group
    * OpenSSF WGs

* There is a need to be more vocal about what in-toto is and does.
* Is there an in-toto presence on social media?
* Aditya is working on a blog post, which should clarify how much work "under the hood" is done by in-toto
* It was suggested we need to make some in-roads with the Open SSF communities.
* It was agreed to move this issue to the ITSC for their input and perhaps the formation of a task force to work on this issue.

#### in-toto and Secure Boot
* How could in-toto attestations be used to attest to more than just the software
* Don't neglect the Windows side -- not just Linux

#### Witness & Archivista
* Cole Kennedy did a presentation on the Witness and Archivista. The former "provide a source of rich trusted meta data for policy decisions." The latter  serves as a "store for in-toto attestations," which are indexed on in-toto subjects. 
* Archivista-supports any in-toto attestations and can produce records for all hashes. They are linked together by their in-toto hashes.
* The plan is to donate this project to the in-toto project.
* The presentation can be viewed at https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iF4iVdfl6WO_vdCj3C5BU_0E3QufGCxb6HyR1Dpj6s0/edit#slide=id.p 
* One issue he mentioned was a need to collaborate across an open source standard.
* Lifecycle includes different forms of attestors, so data is collected at different stages. Two other attestors--product and metadata--collect this information in a form that can be consumed for specific purposes.
* At build time, all the system's libraries will be gathered together.

#### KubeCon EU
* Aditya made another request asked for project updates for KubeCon EU.

## 03/03/2023

### Agenda

* New community member introductions (if any)
* Governance & Elections
* KubeCon EU
* Next steps for ITEs
    * ITE-10
    * ITE-9
* AoB
    * Foreshadowing new version of Witness 

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (DataDog)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Alan Chung Ma (Purdue)
* Wiktor Kozlik (Google)
* Santiago Torres Arias (Purdue University)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)

### Governance and elections
* Santiago started by explaining the rationale for the change in governing structure.
* He shared a document that presents the framework and process for the election, which was fundamentally inspired by SPIFFE.
* Santiago will manage this initial procedure, but it is understood that once the governing group is elected, they can review and/or amend the process.
* He proposed that the nomination process will begin on March 4, with the group commencing work on April 11.
* Justin questioned whether the timetable for the process would impact eligibility for graduation, as the governance piece was one of our current missing pieces. He suggested we perhaps move the election process forward a bit.
* In response, Santiago suggested announcement of election results could be moved forward to March 31. The first action of the new group would then be to apply for graduation.
* The proposed election procedure will not include term limits, but this again is something the new committee can chang once it begins its work.

### KubeCon EU
* Santiago suggested setting some goals for this conference.
* Aditya is scheduled to present.

### Next steps for ITEs

#### ITE-6
* This has been merged as a draft. What is needed to move forward?

#### ITE-9
* This is still in draft process. What is needed to merge?
* Decided to hold off on discussion since its champion, Aditya, was not present

#### ITE-10
* Trishank noted that ITE 10 would allow for the use of other languages for attestations/layouts. Specifically,it "classifies policy definitions in in-toto layouts as pertaining to artifacts (already supported) and to properties of a software supply chain step," and "prescribes the use of existing policy languages such as CUE and Rego to define property policies."" 
* Cole noted that ITE 10 includes work done for Witness. (See https://github.com/testifysec/witness-examples/tree/main/keypair)

#### Other Business
* Cole requested that an agenda item be included for the next meeting to discuss the upcoming new version of Witness. If interested, there is an  action available on the Witness repo that can be reviewed.

## 02/10/2023 Meeting

### Call Information
* 11 AM **EST**
* https://meet.jit.si/in-toto-community-meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Roadmap
    * https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/ROADMAP.md
* Governance
* Witness / Archivista (Cole Kennedy / Mikhail Swift)
    * https://github.com/testifysec/witness
    * https://github.com/testifysec/archivist
* in-toto Specification v1.0
    * Future versioning?
* Next steps for ITEs
    * ITE-6
        * https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/issues/41
    * ITE-9
* ITE-10: Layouts for in-toto Attestations

### Attendees
* Lois Anne DeLong (NYU)
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Alan Chung Ma (Purdue)
* Sanket Naik (Palosade)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed Martin)
* John Kjell (VMware)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Tom Hennen (Google)
* Keith Ganger (Lockheed Martin)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Cole Kennedy (TestifySec)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* Jarod Heck (Lockheed Martin)
* Marcela Melara (Intel)

### Notes

#### Roadmap 
(See https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/ROADMAP.md)
* Aditya introduced the roadmap and encouraged review and feedback
* He noted that some things may be changed based on today's discussion

#### Governance
* Santiago presented the rationale for moving to a less top-down governance structure.
* The revised structure will be more in line with practices in other open source communities.
* Santiago would step down as consensus builder and would be replaced by an elected board of five members. He did stipulate that he hopes there would continue to be an academic presence on this board--at least one person or perhaps a set percentage.
* There was some discussion about the balance of representation on this board (i.e. percentage of academics, percentage of those already involved in an in-toto project)
* Santiago will be organizing the election. There will be more news about this in the coming weeks. 

#### Witness / Archivista (Cole Kennedy / Mikhail Swift)
    * https://github.com/testifysec/witness
    * https://github.com/testifysec/archivist
* TestifySec is donating Witness and Archivista to the in-toto namespace.
* These two open source tools help organizations implement in-toto at scale.
* This process is currently in the works and will occur soon. It is waiting on the installation of a new governing board.
* Witness is currently the most up-to-date with ITEs.
* Hoping to finalize in time for KubeCon North America. 

#### in-toto Specification v1.0
* Need to define what V1.0 is meant to entail in terms of ITEs
* Should future versions be tied to the release of particular ITEs?
* Santiago suggested that ITEs 6-10 be version 2.0.
* Trishank made a case for including ITE 6 in V1.0 because the attestation information may impact the release of SLSA 1.0.
* Cole cautioned not being too quick to close off the discussion on ITE 6 and 10.
* Decision was V1.0 should include ITEs 1-5, but some current aspects of ITE could be included.
* The attestation piece should not be held back by the work that still needs doing in ITE 6.

#### Next steps for ITEs

##### ITE-6
(see https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/issues/41)

##### ITE-9


##### ITE-10: Layouts for in-toto Attestations
https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/38
* Currently in very early draft form
* Feedback is welcomed 

#### Other business
* Aditya talked a bit about PBoms and will be having further discussions with the group that developed this (https://pbom.dev/)

## 01/06/2023 Meeting

### Call Information
* 11 AM **EST**
* https://meet.jit.si/in-toto-community-meeting

### Agenda
* New community member introductions (if any)
* Roadmap / Review
    * https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/roadmap-reviews/2022/review_3_december_22.md
    * Priorities for Roadmap 2023
* in-toto/community
    * https://github.com/in-toto/community
* in-toto Specification v1.0 Planning
    * ITE-5 Appendix: https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/35
* Next steps for ITEs
    * ITE-6
    * ITE-7
    * ITE-9
* ITE-2 tooling effort with TUF maintainers
    * https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto/pull/444
* in-toto-python DSSE support
* in-toto-java / Jenkins Plugin SLSA Provenance v0.2
* SecCon / KubeCon EU

### Attendees
* Aditya Sirish (NYU)
* Justin Cappos (NYU)
* Ian Dunbar-Hall (Lockheed)
* Mikhail Swift (TestifySec)
* Lois Anne Delong (NYU)
* Trishank Karthik Kuppusamy (Datadog)
* Wiktor Kozlik (Google)
* Lakshya Gupta (GSoC)
* Santiago Torres-Arias (Purdue)
* Sanket Naik (Palosade)
* Parth Patel (Kusari)
* j-k
* Marcela Melara (Intel)

### Notes

#### New community member introductions (if any)
* Sanket Naik of Palosade was welcomed to the group

#### Roadmap / Review
See https://github.com/in-toto/docs/blob/master/roadmap-reviews/2022/review_3_december_22.md

* Aditya asked for suggestions of what should be prioritized in the next Roadmap. 
    * Conduct more formal reviews of existing projects so we can better prioritize support.
    * Offer some guidance in terms of standards/norms, including better documentation on existing projects.
    * Better storage and indexing for attestations, such as those being developed/supported by Guac
    * Include the predicate dictionary 
    * "Evangelization for adoption?" 
    * Solutions that better support ITE 6 in the Reference Implementation.
* Roadmap should be up to date and active by the next meeting.

#### in-toto/community
https://github.com/in-toto/community
    
* Aditya noted that this repository should serve as a central landing point for community issues and encouraged its use
 
#### in-toto Specification v1.0 Planning
* The question raised was should the project accept the current specification as V. 1.0. 
* If so, are ITE's such as ITE 5 to be included.
* See ITE-5 Appendix: https://github.com/in-toto/ITE/pull/35

#### Next steps for ITEs

##### ITE 9
* Created the ITE Predicate Review Team
* Having a formal acceptance route for new predicate types is needed to encourage new adopters
* ITE 6 should be addressed in parallel with this.
* Before the next meeting, Aditya and Santiago will review ITE 6 to see what might be missing.

##### ITE-7
* Once the implementations have merged the new changes, this can be accepted.

* ITE-2 tooling effort with TUF maintainers
https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto/pull/444

#### in-toto-python DSSE support
* Very close to having support in place for this within the next week or so.

#### in-toto-java / Jenkins Plugin SLSA Provenance v0.2
* This is very close to release as well.

#### SecCon / KubeCon EU
* The next Community Meeting will be moved back a week to avoid conflict with these conferences.
